Product Requirements Document
Anna Jones
Christian Tanks
Dung Hoang
Braden Elmlinger

Introduction: 
We are implementing an event calendar app that lets Rhodes students post and see Rhodes events that are happening around Memphis, as well as keep track of said events and personal engagements with a personal calendar. When one is a user of this app, one can post an event where the app allows the user to enter a time, date, and location, along with a picture option to post the flier for that event.  Users can then engage in the feed, where event posts are located, and like events they are wanting to attend - this will automatically enter the liked event into the user’s personal calendar. If users are interested in a specific organization, they can filter to see upcoming events from it alone. We think this is beneficial to the Rhodes community as it provides a singular “location” to discover events around campus, and reduces the amount of paper waste and clutter on buildings.

Who benefits from this project and what problem this solves for them:
All Rhodes students will benefit from this app in that it will keep all events and fliers in one location for them to examine at will. It will also greatly benefit organizations’ advertising efforts, taking a burden off of busy students’ shoulders. No longer will they need to worry about covering enough of campus with fliers or posting information on enough Rhodes social media accounts. Instead, organizations can make one post in this app that will easily garner hundreds of views. When users post events, they will have to separately enter the date of the event so that the app can automatically delete the post after the event ends. The flier will then appear on the page for the corresponding day. This will help Rhodes students keep track of upcoming events and not be confused by outdated fliers. Additionally, this event promotion app will help beautify the Rhodes campus by removing the need for tacky fliers cluttering doors and hallways.
Resident assistant (RA) programs especially will benefit from this application. As every RA must host 3-5 programs a semester, many RA programs are happening every week. However, despite many of the programs being creative and fun and the programs being open to all students, turnout is often extremely low. This can result in punishments for RAs and missed opportunities for other students. Having a space for RAs to easily advertise their events beyond just their own residence halls will help Rhodes students at large be more aware of fun events occurring, RAs not to feel sad and have to re-do events, and spread awareness about program topics. 
Furthermore, Rhodes professors, administration, and staff can use the app to promote department sponsored events such as guest speakers, poster presentations, Career Services events, question and answer sessions, interest meetings, etc. Faculty and staff could simply create an account and post events as usual, thus increasing the visibility of academic and administrative events beyond just their target audience. 
The expected outcomes of this project and how it addresses the user’s needs:
We expect this app will help increase turnout at Rhodes events and reduce confusion about what events are occurring and when. It will also provide a better outcome for those hosting events because the events are being exposed to everyone who has the app, which, in success, will likely be virtually all Rhodes students. Being able to post a flier in one location and garner lots of viewership will make the advertising process simpler and less time consuming. Additionally, the application would ideally reduce the amount of physical fliers posted around campus, reducing paper waste and saving organizations money on printing. From this perspective the app benefits everyone involved- organizations and potential event attendees- by providing a singular location and method for event promotion.
Existing Approaches & their Shortcomings:
Existing approaches include weekly emails, Rhodes’s many Instagram accounts, class GroupMes, and physical fliers posted around campus. The emails fail to meet user needs because the emails are only sent out at the beginning of the week; this means that events on Mondays are often missed by those who have yet to read the email and many students forget about the email later in the week. The event information is in small, boring text at the bottom of the message, and to see more information and a flier users must click on a link that usually takes a while to load. These emails also often fail to report many Rhodes events, and many students completely disregard them. 
The Rhodes Instagram accounts fail to meet user needs in that many students do not follow the accounts because the majority of the posted content is unrelated to their lives and interests. Or, many students may not know about certain of these accounts because there are multiple official Rhodes accounts in addition to accounts for all of the major organizations. Additionally, the Instagram accounts only share individual event information in each post, and there is not an option for students to easily survey all upcoming events in one location. 
Class and course GroupMes fail to meet user needs because they only go to a fraction of the student body. Traditionally, every class (as in the entire senior class, for example) at Rhodes has a GroupMe, which students will use to advertise events. While this is helpful, one post will still only reach a quarter of the student body, and likely not even that; these GroupMes often are distracting and contain information most of their subjects are uninterested in, so they are therefore often muted and ignored.
Finally, the physical fliers fail to meet students’ needs because the fliers could be posted in areas of campus that certain students never travel to. Furthermore, the fliers fall down, become crumpled, get posted over each other, are left hanging long after their advertised event ended, and become drowned out during Fall elections. Therefore, many students disregard physical fliers even if they do cross paths with them. 
Project Requirements:
The user will have 3 main screens that they will toggle between: their feed of posts, their calendar and their user profile.
Feed: the feed will mainly consist of a scrolling window where users can scroll up and down to view posts. There will be a filter button where they can filter posts according to different criteria (earliest event vs. furthest away event, sort by tags such as sports or whether food will be provided, etc.). There will also be a button where users will be able to post their events, thus adding it to people’s feeds. When posting events, data about the event will need to be inputted, such as when the event is happening, if it is recurring, a pdf of an event poster, and whether the event should have certain tags (sports, food provided, etc.).
Posts: posts will be within the feed and display information about events. Users interact with posts in many different ways; users can star events they plan on attending and unstar events they decide against, add events to their calendar (which will automatically happen when users star events) and remove from their calendar (which will automatically happen when users unstar events), delete posts that they had posted, and report posts that are seen as derogatory, inflammatory, or obscene.
User Profile: the user profile will display user data such as their username, as well as change their password. The profile will also contain a personal calendar that the user marks with which events they are planning on going to, which can be done manually or automatically when they like an event.
Use Cases:
Use case #1:  User first signing in                                                                                      Primary Actor: User                                                                                                                                          System: Shared-event cloud system  
1. User downloads app from the app store          					 2. User opens app 									3.User gets to sign in page 							4.User inputs email that works as username 					5.User gets a key  										6. User logs in to app								Extensions: 
1a.Users device is not compatible
1b. User does not meet storage requirements
4a.User does not want to use personal phone number
4b. User uses alternative phone number as username
5a. User has multiple keys
Use case #2:  User posts an event                                                                              Primary Actor: User                                                                                                                                          System: Shared-event cloud system  
1. User opens the app and signs in
2. User uploads a poster, writes a description, and specifies the date, time, and location of the event
3. User publishes the post
Extensions:
2a. The image file is too big: the poster can’t be uploaded
3a. User notices a mistake after posting: user edits the post
Use case #3:  User reports an inappropriate post                                                                             Primary Actor: User                                                                                                                                          System: Shared-event cloud system  
1. User opens the app and signs in
2. User sees an inappropriate post on the feed
3. User creates a report, specifying the reasons why the post is inappropriate
4. User submits the report
Extensions:
4a. User is given a message where it states their report has been seen.


Project Dependencies:
The project will require a database that will store data about both the users and the posts, which will most likely be achieved in the form of a Firebase database that will link to the application. This can lead to potential risk, as user data is stored in a database ultimately controlled by a third party company, but ultimately is necessary to ensure ease of use for both admin keeping track of the data and users inputting their data. The project will also depend on valid Rhodes email accounts, as this is what users will need to be able to utilize this app. 

Non-functional requirements: 
Anything requiring a lot of storage space that we need can be downloaded on Braden’s laptop, as he has plenty of space available for use. 
The app will be lightweight and won’t require a lot of storage/memory/cpu usage from the user.
An analysis of the project risks:
The main risk is the possibility that people will make inappropriate comments with a post. If this occurs, then any user could report the post. If an administrator (like the head of Rhodes activities) agrees that the post is inappropriate, it would then be deleted and the individual who made the post could be sent to the appropriate authorities, like the Community Standards Council or Director Adams, to receive an appropriate punishment. Another risk is if a student posts an event but the location or the event itself turns out to be unsafe for college students. If this occurs, the students who decided to attend that event would be at risk. 
To minimize these risks, we intend to have two different options for creating an account. One account option would be for individual, student use. This option would not have the ability to allow users to make posts. The second account option would be an opt-in for posting privileges- these accounts would be labeled as “organizations”. This could work in Rhodes in that the president of an organization or an organization’s faculty representative could click the “become organization” button, enter their email, and convert their account into an “organization” account. From there, this profile will have the ability to make posts.
